First for lunching the instances Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS i choosed online cloud platform aws
I created Basic AWS free tire account
then for lunching the instance below step lead create new instance.
step 1. in the AWS console login with credentials .
step 2. after successful login in top of aws menu screen there is a service option click on that . it will take you to aws service page
In that select Ec2  for lunching the virtul operating system in AWS.
In the next page To start using Amazon EC2 you will want to launch a virtual server, known as an Amazon EC2 instance.
Select the lunch instance. (it create new instance)
these are step by step process.

1. Choose AMI 2. Choose Instance Type 3.Configure Instance 4. Add Storage5. Add Tags6. Configure Security Group 7. Review

1. Choose
Here i opt for free tire option and select one of the Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS.
Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS (HVM), SSD Volume Type - ami-0653e888ec96eab9b (64-bit x86) / ami-0b5f1bbaae8cd790f (64-bit Arm)
I choosed the above version.

2. Choose Instance
General purpose
t2.micro
Free tier eligible
1 cpu
1 ram
EBS only
-
Low to Moderate

select this t2.micro which is free tire  which comes with 1 ram and 1 core processor.
and corner of right side down pane click  Next: Configure Instance Details.

3.Configure Instance
Number of instances "2" // here i give two instance for launch.
and choose another option in my case launching small ec2 not required.

4. Add Storage

Step 4: Add Storage
here i allocated the 20 gb ssd for each EC2 mechine.

it will take you to next wepage . in that edit the security group ( the security group is used allow the various port for login and also restrict ports to access or block internet trafic.)
 
 step 5 add key in this not required just leavit.
 
Step 6: Configure Security Group
Assign a security group:
Create a new security group ( here im select this option because this new aws account i have'nt created before security group.)
Security group name: Devops_fresher // i gave the name for security group and below give the description for the group.
i choosen then the below option for access ec2 instance in my linux mechine and windows mechine.
ADD RULES---
Type --------ssh 
Protocol-----TCP
Port Range----22
Source-------ANYWHERE // I OPT THIS OPTION INSTED REMAING TWO OPTION CUSTOM, MYIP.
Description-----DEVOPS_FRESHER_EC2_MECHINES
CLICK NEXT BUTTON --- REVIEW AND LAUNCH
7. Review
Step 7: Review Instance Launch
Cancel Previous  Launch
Please review your instance launch details. You can go back to edit changes for each section. Click Launch to assign a key pair to your instance and complete the launch process.
 it will show u all details has done that 
 
click lauch.
 in very next step it will ask you that public key.
 in my case i dont created before so now iam creating new keypair
 choose create new keypair option
 give the new keypair name and description --- and download the keypair file which .pem format file  
 next click the launch option and it will take you to instance page in that you can see that what are the instance are up and running.
 
 this all about creating the AWS Instance. next how login the 
 
thank 
